Now before we move to creating some more interesting queries I wanted to show you what is the actual
performance implication of using the eager loading V as the lazy loading.
So for this we'll use forum as an example.
Our index page with the blog posts when we fetch all the blog posts currently but we'll write a little
chunk of code to also get all the comments from this blog post.
So to make this example look realistic we need to add some more blog posts so let's do that now.
Doesn't really matter what you enter here unless it is not valid.
So let's create maybe 2 more valid blog posts.
Doesn't really matter so I've just created two more blog posts.
Now let's head back to our post controller and let's see the example.
So first thing we'll have to do is we have to import a class from the illuminate namespace support for
seeds and the class name is D.B..
It's the upper case B so I haven't explained phosphates yet so we are going a little bit ahead of our
time.
But don't worry about it.
It's not something you will use everyday inside your up.
At least this particular example because you will be using phosphates.
Now I just want to show you something.
So you need to enable database logging and we can do that by accessing their phosphate which is object
and call get the current connection and enable query log.
So this simple instruction will enable the logging of all the queries that are made inside Lara VO So
anytime Aquarius made it will be logged.
So now will do very simple things will fetch all the blog posts into a variable so we'll use our blog
post all.
So this will fetch all the blog posts and now we'll iterate over all the blog posts by using the sample
for each.
So we do for each posts us post and then inside it will add another loop and now we'll iterate over
all the blog posts comments so now this post would be a blog post instance and it will have this.
We can use this field comments
now what we are going to do is very simple.
We want to echo the content on of every comment of every blog post.
And finally we will use Didi which we have used before.
It's just dump and die.
And what we want to see is all the actual queries that were made.
And we can access that by using the D.B. phosphates static method get query log.
Now don't worry we will remove this code.
It is just for showing you the example.
Now save the changes make sure you save the changes.
And now go to this page the posts where we have a list of all the blog posts and refresh and what you
can see here will be all the queries that are being made so take a look at this.
So we have a free blog post.
So first it is fetching.
That's all the blog posts.
So maybe let's increase it a little bit so we can see what's happening.
It's fetching all the blog posts so there is a query to fetch them.
And then each time you go over this loop for each blog post it is doing another query.
Exactly in this place when you are accessing the comments field it is making another query and this
is lazy loading.
So it doesn't fetch any comments upfront.
It is only doing this particular query SELECT FROM comments where a blog post I.D. and now specifying
the proper blog post I.D. when you access this comments field.
So as you can see we can easily make even 100 queries when we will have a hundred blog posts on the
page.
And for some reason we would like to access the comments content or any other data for that matter is
just for showing you the example and while we are we are lucky because on the Have we only have free
blog posts but imagine having more.
This would end up having like hundred queries if we will have a hundred blog posts now for comparison
if we would fetch all the blog posts up front with the comments.
So we'll do something like this blog post with comments get to actually fetch the result save the changes.
And now let's go back and see what we get.
And now you see we already have limited it to two queries and now it doesn't really matter how many
blog posts we would have because you can see the second query that it is fetching all the comments where
the blog post is in specific set.
So this happens to be all the ideas of our blog posts that we have inside the database and you can verify
that by going to your database client whatever you are using and seeing that we have this free I.D..
So this might have a very significant impact on the performance of your application.
And remember about that when you are deciding whether to use eager loading or lazy loading.
So it is very easy to make it very slow by just making too many queries at once OK.
So let's go back to the code editor I will just comment that out and comment that to the repository
so you can see it and easily reused this example we of course do not need that.
I just wanted to show you the difference of eager loading and lazy loading and how much impact it can
have on your application performance.
I'm not saying you should always use that you go to loading but you just have to decide and if you see
that your queries are too slow or it is a pain point in your application you might just then consider
using eager loading.
And sometimes of course lazy loading is just fine when you are pretty sure you want to be doing too
much queries or you won't need to read too much related data.